It's time for our first Framework Aside.
I really like these.
The idea here is that we're
going to talk for a moment.
And we'll do this throughout the course,
about how what we've been discussing
is used inside popular and
famous frameworks and libraries.
That are used on millions of sites around
the internet and in many web applications.
For our purposes, although framework and
library can really mean two different
things, we're going to essentially talk
about them as if they were the same thing.
For our purposes, a framework and
a library are the same thing.
A grouping of JavaScript code
that performs a task and
is intended to be reusable.
But, we're going to dive deep
into how libraries like jQuery or
frameworks like AngularJs use some of the
concepts we're discussing in their code.
So, let's talk for
a moment about default values.
We can combine some of what we've
learned about default values, and
also about execution contexts in
the global environment, to understand
some lines of code that appear quite often
in popular frameworks and libraries.
If you look under the hood and
look at their source code.
So for example, I have this index that
HTML file that's just referencing ap.js.
I'm gonna pretend that I have
a couple of libraries or
frameworks that I'm
including in my projects.
So let's say lib1 and
lib2 are two libraries that I have.
Now, I'm gonna go ahead and creat those.
Lib1, lib2.
And library one, just for an example,
I'm gonna go ahead and set a variable.
Let's say I want the name of the library.
So the library name, this is Lib 1.
And this suppose is written by one person,
and
Lib 2 is written by someone else entirely,
but
they also create the library name Lib 2,
the same variable.
So what's going to happen?
Well, when you look at the app.js file,
and I console.log(libraryName)
We need to understand what's happening
when these three JavaScript files are run.
These three script tags are not
creating new execution context.
They're not separating
the code in any way.
Quite literally, they're stacking
the code on top of each other.
And then, running all of this JavaScript
as if it was inside a single file.
And often when in production
JavaScript environments,
you actually combine and minify your
JavaScript code into one file anyway.
So it's important that these files
not collide with one another.
Let's run this code for a second.
And let's see what we get.
I'm going to go ahead and
open my console window.
And look, Lib 2.
So what happened?
Well, what happened was that when
looking at how the JavaScript
source files were loaded, library one or
Lib 1 was loaded as line one.
Lib 2 was loaded.
So that's line two of
the code that was run.
And then, console.log.
This was all then treated as
global variables sitting inside
the global execution context, and
thus attached to the Window object,
in the case of the browser.
So, I declared var libraryName, and
that was attached to the window object.
And the second var just replaced it,
right over this first library name.
So this can be a bit unusual when
dealing with frameworks or libraries.
Maybe we've accidentally
collided with another library, or
maybe another library
is there to replace us.
So, we wanna be nice about this.
What can we do?
Well, let's go to Lib 2,
and we can check and
see if libraryName is already in
the global execution, global variable.
So, I could say window.libraryName =, and
then I'll say window.libraryName or Lib 2.
So what am I doing?
I'm checking to see if there's
already a library name in the global
execution context sitting on
the global variable which is Window.
If it is,
then I'm just not going to do anything.
And if not, using the or operator
to set my default value because if
this wasn't set by anyone,
it'd be undefined.
Then, I'll set it to
the value that I want.
So, if I run this code, it's Lib 1.
See that?
Because this first JavaScript file,
that's the line that was run.
This is put onto the window object.
And then in my second library file,
I just made sure that I wasn't colliding
with it by checking to see if something
was already there of that name.
So in the case of a lot of frameworks and
libraries,
you'll see a line of code that
looks something like this.
Where it's actually setting the object or
the set of functions that define
the library or the framework.
And not bothering to do anything at all if
something is already there of that name.
Now of course, this could,
in itself, cause some errors,
but that's likely
the developer's fault for
perhaps colliding with the name that's
already in the library he or she is using.
And it makes it easier to debug and
understand what's going on,
because the entire library
just won't be there.
Because it will say, oh,
you've already used that name.
So I'm going to exclude myself
from doing anything at all.
So when you look inside the source code
and you see something that looks kind of
like this, understand that it's
checking the global namespace,
or the global object,
to see if something of that name is there.
So that it doesn't collide or override it.